title: I need a hammer. Not.
date: 2014-01-11
category: technical
published: true
summary: You assure me you “need” threads. But they are a tool and you might need something else.

*Warning*: rethoric ahead.

You knock at my door. You **need** a hammer. After many years as neighbors and
a coffee together every two or three weeks, you know I have a bunch of tools. I
know you, you live upstairs, you won't run with my tools. Next week we will
have a coffee and I will get my tools back.  You seem in a hurry so I handle
you my best hammer. You leave and I feel happy I helped you as much as I can.
Not

![Thunderhammer][thunderhammer]

You ask me for a hammer because you want to do some IKEA hacker stuff and join
two pieces of furniture. The glue you applied didn't seem enough, so a few
nails would do it. You found some nails, but couldn't find your hammer, so you
knocked at my door and asked me for a hammer. You got it and you will spend 20
minutes improving your furniture and hoping not to hammer your hand or the
furniture itself. You couldn't find your hammer, you don't use it often so it
is quite probable your skills won't avoid breaking something.

Good, isn't it? In fact I have a nail gun. It doesn't work with huge nails but it
does the job 95% of the time. If you had told me you needed to reinforce some
furniture with nails, or even you wanted to put some nails and you thought a
hammer would be nice. I could have improved on your thinking and offered you a
nail gun.

Do you **need** threads as you need a hammer? Threads are a tool. I don't know
what you're up to. If you need some quick tips about threads, I can help you.
But if you tell me exactly what you're trying to do, we might end up using
threads anyway, or we could end up using something else and perhaps hammering
neither our hands nor the furniture.

My two cents.

[thunderhammer]: thunderhammer.jpg "Thunderhammer from Warhammer 40K"
